hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day I've been wanting to
do this video forever chameleons tongues
are very unique and this is a very
hungry chameleon right now and I'm going
to see if I can feed him by holding a
cricket my mouth and there's a lot of
her gone hmm
that was amazing you got it okay so the
unique that was okay the cool thing
about Camille I'm feeding him again
we're did it again alright cricket I
think you've had a good life it's time
to meet mojo
mm-hmm I think mojo likes crickets okay
that's amazing okay so it's a really
unique biomechanical device that's a
catapult and we're going to analyze it
in slow motion and then I'm going to
show you a little model I built to
explain this but the chameleons tongue
is a wonder of nature it is beautiful so
I'm gonna feed mojo a little bit more
and let's look at some slow motion then
we'll talk about it
[Music]
okay this is that a good model but we're
gonna try this anyway this is a
chameleon right right in the back of a
chameleons throat there is this long
longitudinal bone that is fired by
something called the hyoid bone you have
a hyoid it's in the back of your throat
just under your jaw anyway the chameleon
will use that to launch that bone
straight out forward right on the
outside of that there is this
musculature that's the tongue muscle and
a sphincter is like a muscle around a
hole right well this tongue of the
chameleon has a series of speaker
muscles lined up and it will fire them
in rapid succession so that it'll
squeeze that tongue muscle off of that
bone that's protruding forward so you've
got several steps that happen in order
to accelerate that tongue forward it's
really neat how it works but it's really
hard to visualize with pipes that you
created in your eyes but what does help
you is when you have a really smart
friend named Emily graslie
and you can just randomly text her I was
wondering if you guys have a chameleon
skeleton to which she replies I'm
certain we do hey guys it's Emily
graslie from the brain scoop here at the
Field Museum in Chicago and I wanted to
show you a chameleon that's been
prepared in a really special way that
allows you to see all of the bones in
the specimen that are still intact and
it's a process that we call diaphanous
ation or clearing and staining this is
what this process looks like it looks as
though the specimen is just a skeleton
but actually there's still tissue that
is on all the bones it's just been
processed with an enzyme that makes it
clear and then the specimen sits in
glycerin which has the same refractive
index as the tissue in the animal so you
don't get any sort of reflection
and then here you can see the hyoid bone
and here's some of the cartilage of the
trachea of the windpipe and then the
hyoid bone which is three bones put
together you can even see some of that
other blue cartilage down there and then
wrapped around it that's actually the
tongue that's still in place resting on
the high weight bone as soon as Emily
sent me this footage everything became
clear you've got a tube our mechanical
linkage just like I learned about in
engineering school in the throat of the
chameleon you can see that you shape
bone in the back fold up and back as he
sticks that bone in and out it's amazing
you've got those muscles on the outside
of that linear bone you can see the
stinker spire to squirt that tongue off
the end of it it's amazing anyway let's
watch the high-speed together and see if
you can identify each individual step in
the process in order to attack this
cricket
[Music]
on this shot the shadows are perfect so
they reveal exactly what's going on with
a hyoid bone its operating exactly like
a mechanical barley
[Music]
[Applause]
all right I hope you enjoyed this
episode of smarter every day you know
how the internet works sometimes a
sponsor will sponsor a video well this
one was sponsored by Kiwi Co if you
watched smarter every day for any length
of time you know I love their products I
reached out to them they sponsored when
they were called Kiwi crate but that's
the name of one of their products so now
they changed their name to Kiwi Co
different boxes are focused on different
pages in different stages of development
for example they have a new box called a
cricket crate that's focused on two plus
so my daughter's excited she gets to
have one for herself now oh my goodness
are you are you serious you've got to
make rockets man it's a rocket I might
steal this from you if you want to do
this go to Kiwi TOCOM slash smarter get
the first box for free you just pay
shipping this is completely worth it it
is great for a kid's mind as a dad I
love this because it gives my kids
hands-on developmental time it's better
than screen time we enjoy it my son for
example he likes tinker crates he learns
about engineering my daughter loves art
so we do the doodle crate for her she
even keeps the old boxes and goes back
to room sometimes this is a blast you
will love it I highly recommend it go to
Kiwi co.com slash smarter these make
great gifts it's like givin the kid a
gift every single month and the gift is
learning
thanks to Kiwi copra sponsor and smarter
every day and give my family some
quality time together we really
appreciate it
a big thanks to Emily Grassley from the
brain scoop she's got a great youtube
channel you should check it out she
basically takes some part animals all
the time you should go look at that it's
called the brain scoop you'll love it
also a big thanks to Drew who is mojo's
human drew takes care mojo he does a
really good job at it how many crickets
will mojo eat only about 10 to 15 a day
so what other what other things do you
feed him just crickets crickets horns ok
toes butterflies moths you feeding
butterflies I hope this video and your
subscription I'm gonna put a link right
here beside mojo if you feel like this
video has earned it please click the
subscribe link I'm not gonna know if you
click it or not but mojo is gonna be
sitting there
with a look of disapproval until you
actually subscribe to smarter every day
so I don't know whatever you want to do
but mo just watching here we go